.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
.\"     may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"     without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH ERROR 3abz  "August 2004" Unix "Library calls"
.SH NAME
abz_set_error, abz_cat_error, abz_clear_error \- error functions
.SH LIBRARIES
Abz Library (-labz), Debug Library (-ldebug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <abz/error.h>
.sp
.BI "void abz_set_error(const char *" fmt ", ...);
.nl
.BI "void abz_cat_error(const char *" fmt ", ...);
.nl
.BI "void abz_clear_error();
.nl
.BI "const char *abz_get_error();
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functions in the error family can be used to store error messages.
Error messages are set using \fBabz_set_error()\fP. Once set, an error
message can not be overwritten. Call \fBabz_clear_error()\fP to clear the
error message and \fBabz_get_error()\fP to retrieve the last set error
message. If no error message is set, \fBabz_get_error()\fP returns an
empty string.
.PP
It is possible to append error messages to the last set error message by
calling \fBabz_cat_error()\fP. If an error already exist, a newline will be
inserted between the two error messages. The usual rule of set-once-clear
does not apply here (i.e. if you call this consecutive times, the error
message will span multiple lines).
.SH "NOTES"
None of the libabz routines are thread-safe. I'm not planning to change this
either! For more information, please see http://threading.2038bug.com/
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
