.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
.\"     may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"     without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH ATON 3abz "August 2004" Unix "Library calls"
.SH NAME
aton \- convert a string to a network structure.
.SH LIBRARIES
Abz Library (-labz), Debug Library (-ldebug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <abz/aton.h>
.sp
.BI "int aton(struct network *" net ", const char *" str );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBaton()\fP function converts a string to a network structure which is
defined in \fI<abz/aton.h>\fP as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 12
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct network
{
    uint32_t address;
    uint32_t netmask;
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Both the \fIaddress\fP and \fInetmask\fP fields are stored in network byte
order.
.PP
The network string should be either a valid ip-address, network and CIDR
mask, or a valid (resolvable) hostname.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBaton()\fP function returns 0 if successful or -1 if the
string is not a valid network.
.SH "NOTES"
None of the libabz routines are thread-safe. I'm not planning to change this
either! For more information, please see http://threading.2038bug.com/
.PP
If the library was compiled without the GETHOSTBYNAME flag, only the
ip-address and network functionality will be available.
.PP
At the time of writing, the glibc library gethostbyname() function had a bug
which caused it to resolve some invalid hostnames. In order to detect those
cases, the \fBaton()\fP function also does a reverse lookup using
gethostbyaddr() to see if the domain really exist.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
