.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
.\"     may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"     without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH ARGV 3abz  "March 2007" Unix "Library calls"
.SH NAME
strtoargv, vtoargv, toargv, freeargv, argvtostr \- convert between argument lists and strings
.SH LIBRARIES
Abz Library (-labz), Debug Library (-ldebug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <abz/argv.h>
.sp
.BI "char **strtoargv(const char *" str ");
.nl
.BI "char **vtoargv(const char *" fmt ", va_list " ap ");
.nl
.BI "char **toargv(const char *" fmt ", ...);
.nl
.BI "void freeargv(char **" argv ");
.nl
.BI "void argvtostr(char *" str ",size_t " size ", char *const " argv "[]);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions can be used to convert between strings and argument lists as
used by the \fBexec()\fP famility of functions, and vice versa.
.PP
The \fBtoargv()\fP functions break up a string into NULL terminated list of
arguments which can be used for the \fBexec()\fP family of functions. Same
rules as that of most UNIX shells apply, i.e.
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 12
.ta 8n 16n 32n
a) '\\' is the escape character
b) '"' can be used to quote strings
c) leading and trailing whitespace is stripped from each argument
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
The \fBargvtostr()\fP concatenates all the arguments in the specified
argument list into a single string of specified size (arguments seperated
with spaces). The argv list must be NULL terminated.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
All functions except \fBfreeargv()\fP and \fBargvtostr()\fP return a pointer
to a NULL terminated argument list if successful, or NULL if an error
occurred.
.PP
Call \fBabz_get_error()\fP to retrieve error messages.
.SH "NOTES"
None of the libabz routines are thread-safe. I'm not planning to change this
either! For more information, please see http://threading.2038bug.com/
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
