.\"
.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\"  Copyright (c) Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
.\"  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\"  Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"  are met:
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"     notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"     documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of other contributors
.\"     may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"     without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\"  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\"  AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
.\"  THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"  ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\"  FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"  DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
.\"  SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
.\"  CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
.\"  OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\"  OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH TRIM 3abz  "August 2004" Unix "Library calls"
.SH NAME
ltrim, rtrim, trim \- trim whitespace from a string.
.SH LIBRARIES
Abz Library (-labz), Debug Library (-ldebug)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <abz/trim.h>
.sp
.BI "void ltrim(char *" str ");
.nl
.BI "void rtrim(char *" str ");
.nl
.BI "void trim(char *" str ");
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBltrim()\fP function trim blanks from the left side of the specified
string. The \fBrtrim()\fP function trim blanks from the right side of the
specified string, and the \fBtrim()\fP function trim blanks from both sides
of the specified string.
.SH "NOTES"
None of the libabz routines are thread-safe. I'm not planning to change this
either! For more information, please see http://threading.2038bug.com/
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Abraham vd Merwe <abz@blio.com>
